---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - GSoC 2020
comments: true
tags: [GSoC, SymPy]
---

Week 2 of the coding period is now over. It was a week full of learning and a lot challenges. I had my first meeting with Nikhil and Ishan on June 4, between 5:00 - 6:00 p.m. where we discussed a few things regarding the implementation part for this week, or some general discussions on certain topics.

Here's a sneak peek at the functionality that I had been working on, this whole week ;)

```python
>>> from sympy.physics.control.lti import TransferFunction
>>> from sympy.abc import s, p
>>> from sympy import init_printing
>>> init_printing(use_unicode=True)
```

1. Creating a TransferFunction by providing numerator, denominator and a variable (for anchoring the symbols).
```python
>>> tf1 = TransferFunction(s**4 + s**3 - 4*s**2 + p, p**4 + s**3 - 4, s)
>>> tf1
        4    3      2
p + s  + s  - 4⋅s 
──────────────────
       4    3        
   p  + s  - 4
```

2. Using `simplify` to explicitly cancel poles and zeros.
```python
>>> tf2 = TransferFunction((p + 3)*(p - 1), (p - 1)*(p + 5), p)
>>> simplify(tf2)
p + 3
─────
p + 5
```

3. Using `expand` method to expand the numerator and the denominator whenever needed.
```python
>>> tf2.expand()
 2          
p  + 2⋅p - 3
────────────
 2          
p  + 4⋅p - 5
```

4. Taking power of a TransferFunction.
```python
>>> tf3 = TransferFunction(s + p, s - p, s)
>>> tf3**2	
          2
 (p + s) 
─────────
          2
(-p + s) 
```

Other methods also include negation, addition, subtraction, division and multiplication of Transfer Functions.
We can even combine all of them and perform operations like `tf1*tf2 + tf3/tf4` with them! 

### Some key highlights of this week's work are:

* I worked on the implementation of the `TransferFunction` class. The implementation is almost over, just some minor tweaks might be needed.

* Docstrings for the class and all the methods were recently added in the PR.  

This PR ([#19390](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/19390)) is too big (850+ lines of code) so it's taking more time than expected, but I will try to get it merged within next two days.

In week 3, after this PR gets in, I will first discuss a few things with my mentors regarding the API for `TransferFunctionMatrix` class, and then work on adding unit tests for the same.

I have a lot more to learn and implement! :)
