---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Week 12 - GSoC 2020
tags: [SymPy, GSoC, control-theory, Control-systems]
---

This is the final blog post highlighting the work done in the final week of Google Summer of Code program 2020.

Merged PRs for this week:
* [PR-19896](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/19896): This PR added some other useful methods in the `TransferFunction`
class. It was a part of the "other" functionality Jason wanted in this package. It includes `dc_gain`, `poles()`, `zeros()`, `_roots` function, and
`is_stable` method. `dc_gain` _can_ be used to compute the gain of the response as the frequency approaches zero. `poles` and `zeros` could be used to
find the poles (roots of the denominator polynomial) and zeros (roots of the numerator polynomial) of the transfer function. `_roots` was basically a helper function
that was added which is like `roots` but for works only for higher-order polynomials, and uses the code from the _ode_ module of SymPy. And `is_stable` method can be
used to check the asymptotic stability of the transfer function. All these were tested, documented, and polished properly before merging.

* [PR-20008](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/20008): Once the aforementioned PR was merged, I noticed there was a rendering fault. I added the comment in an
appropriate position and then this PR was accepted.

Open PRs for this week:
* [PR-19761](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/19761): Since only one week is left before the deadline, and the scope of this PR is big, I discussed with my mentors
that it's okay to reduce the scope and focus only on the necessary functionality now. Whole week, I worked on the documentation and MIMO transfer function algebra.
I added the class level docstring and docstring for all other methods in the `TransferFunctionMatrix` class. I also added a lot of unit-tests related to MIMO transfer
function algebra and then made sure that all the tests added till now pass. Still I have to make changes as per the review and will deal with them in the buffer week.

This leads us to the completion of Google Summer of Code 2020. I'm really thankful to my mentors for reviewing my PRs and always supporting me. There were times when I
felt like things were getting out of control because of the big scope of this project, but Nikhil called out a meeting to discuss things with me, that was nice!
Thanks SymPy and Google for this amazing experience.
