---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Week 9 & 10 - GSoC 2020
tags: [SymPy, GSoC]
---

This blog post describes my progress in Weeks 9 and 10 of Google Summer of Code 2020.

I ended up week 8 by making changes in the `Parallel` class to make support for MIMO transfer function
interconnection. 

# Week 9

I decided to do the similar thing for the `Series` class. So now, consider we
two transfer function matrices `tf1` and `tf2`. Multiplication of those two TFMs will now return a `Series`
object, i.e. `tf1` * `tf2` returns `Series(tf1, tf2)` if the users make sure that no. of inputs of the first
transfer function matrix (TFM) is equal to the no. of the outputs of the second TFM.

Next step was to implement `doit()` method for Transfer function matrix class. Further modifications were
also made in the `Parallel` class' `doit()` method which earlier handled only the case for SISO transfer functions.
Also, a set of unit tests were added this week.

# Week 10

Along with the continuation of work in Transfer function matrix PR, I opened up
[PR-19896](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/19896) which adds the following methods in the existing
`TransferFunction` class:

- `dcgain`: This method computes the low-frequency gain of the frequency response in the limit as frequency
approaches to zero.

- `poles`: Method for finding poles of the transfer functions, which are basically the roots of the denominator
polynomial.

- `zeros`: Method for finding zeros, which are the roots of the numerator polynomial of the transfer function.

- `is_stable`: This was added as a property to find whether the transfer function is stable or not.


Along with the implementation and docs, I made sure a good set of tests were added. From now on, I'LL *always*
try to test every possible edge case there can be, as Jason points out, "Test driven development".

`:wq` for now :)